ah scientists finally reveal the truth
about the Titanic on April 14th 1912 at
11:40 p.m. RMS Titanic had a terrible
accident that led to its ultimate demise
three hours later by 2:20 a.m. in the
early morning of April 15th
the biggest ship of its time had
completely disappeared under the
ice-cold surface of the Atlantic Ocean
the Titanic took more than 1500 lives
with it as it sank to its watery grave
that's more than two-thirds of all the
people on board the cause of this
horrible disaster leading to so many
deaths was an iceberg the ship crashed
into or so we've always been told but
scientists most recent findings have
debunked this theory in this video we'll
tell you the whole truth that has been
buried for over 100 years at 882 feet 9
inches long 92 feet wide 175 feet tall
and with a usable volume of 46,000 328
tons the Titanic seemed indestructible
people could walk for miles along her
myriad passages and decks even the
ship's officers needed over two weeks to
remember their way around this huge
construction the Titanic had four
massive smokestacks each of them weighed
60 tons and they extended 81.5 feet
above the deck such an impressive height
was necessary to avoid covering the
passengers in 100 tons of soot blown off
daily the smokestacks were placed at a
30-degree angle to look even more
astonishing and imposing no less
inspiring was the cost of the ship its
construction demanded 7.5 million
dollars if we take into account modern
exchange rates and inflation in 2016
they would be paying 166 million dollars
surprisingly it would turn out cheaper
than the production of the world-famous
movie Titanic in 1997
cost 200 million dollars Harland and
Wolff shipyard took on 3,000 men to
build the ship even with a huge labor
force working six days a week from 6:00
in the morning it still took 26 months
to complete the monumental task it was a
difficult and dangerous work imagine
doing something at the height of a
20-story building with no safety ropes
but these people needed money to support
their families
the builders got 2 pounds a week which
doesn't sound like much but it was a
competitive wage back then unfortunately
8 people died during the building
process and 246 were injured so it's
really hard to fathom that such a
complicated mechanism with all the work
effort and money spent on its creation
could just sank
because of one iceberg well new findings
give us reason to believe that the
original cause of the catastrophe was
not ice but fire
journalist Sonam Maloney has been
studying the fate of the Titanic for
more than 30 years it was he who
discovered a huge 30-foot long black
spot on the hull of the ship
he noticed it after examining a photo
taken before Titanic's departure the
journalist got hold of an album of
previously unpublished photographs that
showed the construction of the ship and
the preparations for her first and last
journey the fire had to have been
burning for three weeks at a very high
temperature before somebody noticed it
metallurgy experts are sure that such
conditions could have easily weakened
the metal reducing its strength by as
much as 75 percent that's why the
iceberg didn't have any problems tearing
a hole in the side of the ship if not
for the fire it would have been
impossible but the fact that the iceberg
hit exactly the spot with the
compromised metal is one of the
incredible links in the chain of the
Titanic's tragic what-ifs the management
of the project knew about the fire and
the fact that the ship shouldn't have
set off on that fateful voyage but it
would have meant bankruptcy for the
ship's owners the thing is that at the
time miners all over the country were on
strike so there was no coal to sustain
the Titanic but the tickets had already
been sold out and other ships had been
cancelled since everybody wanted to be
the first to sail on the largest ship
known to mankind that's why the owners
of the Titanic bought all the coal they
could find and even the call from other
ships canceling the trip seemed out of
the question
so to conceal the truth the ship was
turned in such a way that the marks from
the fire faced away from the docks
toward the sea
therefore the passengers couldn't see
them
thus the journey began the interior of
the Titanic was based on that at the
Ritz Hotel in London the grand staircase
went down seven out of the ten decks on
the ship it was decorated with paintings
bronze cherubs and oak paneling the
facilities for the first-class
passengers
included a swimming pool with heated
water a Turkish bath a gym a squash
court and a beauty salon
ladies could even order a stylist to
help them get ready for dinner they had
an onboard newspaper called the Atlantic
daily bulletin there was even a special
place for first-class passengers dogs
the pets were fed taken for walks and
could even be trained during the voyage
the meals for the first class included
13 courses each with its own wine they
were a big occasion lasting about five
hours there were one and a half thousand
bottles of wine 20,000 bottles of beer
and 8,000 cigars yet there were no
binoculars why is this fact worth
mentioning because having binoculars
could have saved the Titanic here is
another tragic coincidence in the chain
of unfortunate events there were no
sonar systems in those times so to
detect threats ahead of a liner special
people kept watch using binoculars but
the binoculars on the Titanic had been
locked away in a special compartment the
only person with the key to the locker
second officer David Blair was replaced
at the last minute he was in such a
hurry to leave the ship that he forgot
to hand the key over to his replacement
this fateful forgetfulness was
discovered only three days later when
the ship was already at sea if the crew
had gotten the binoculars they would
have noticed the iceberg earlier and
would have just enough time to avoid the
crash
perhaps the crash could also been
avoided if the ship hadn't been breaking
the speed limit they were falling behind
schedule and this was unacceptable as it
could ruin the Titanic's reputation
that's why the ship was moving at a
speed much higher than the
was designed for another criminal
negligence was connected with the
lifeboats in order to contain all the
people on board the Titanic needed about
sixty lifeboats the chief designer
Alexander Carlyle planned to equip the
ship with only 48 boats but eventually
the number was reduced even more to 20
this was done purely for cosmetic
reasons since the deck looked too
cluttered with 48 these 20 boats could
seat only 1/3 of all the people on the
ship surprisingly such a hugely
insufficient amount of lifeboats was
technically legal according to the laws
of that time the number of boats
depended not on the number of passengers
but on the tonnage of a ship what's more
at the time of the Titanic's
construction lifeboat drills were
standard practice on ocean liners this
way the crew could prepare passengers
for an emergency should it occur but
this type of drill never took place on
the Titanic Captain Edward John Smith
canceled the drill scheduled on the
morning of the day the Titanic sank
nobody knows the reasons for his
decision especially considering the fact
that other ships had been passing on
warnings about ice in the water in that
vicinity perhaps this is why it took the
crew over a half an hour to launch the
lifeboats instead of the standard 10
minutes some people also blame captain
Smith for allowing the first batch of
lifeboats to leave half empty the first
boat with 65 seats contained just 27
passengers why weren't they packed full
in the beginning people were reluctant
to leave the ship and didn't realize
that they were in grave danger in 2012
researchers found out that Captain Smith
had failed his first exam in navigation
eventually he passed but who knows maybe
this too played its own role in the
disaster
as the Titanic was sinking the crew sent
several distress signals however a ship
sailing near by the California ignored
the emergency flare shot in the sky the
captain of the Californian later lost
his job after this fact came out but
modern researchers have managed to prove
his innocence well better late than
never
the reason nobody noticed the signals
from the Titanic could be due to the
phenomenon of light refraction when
layers of cold air are positioned below
layers of warmer air it causes thermal
inversion thermal inversion in turn
leads to the light refracting abnormally
in short all this creates mirages and
such mirages had been recorded by
several other ships sailing in that area
historian Tim Moulton is also convinced
that light refraction that night could
be the reason why the lookouts missed
the iceberg completely criminal
negligence tragic and unfortunate chain
of coincidences fire or ice whatever it
was it took the lives of hundreds of
people and still keeps the minds of
scientists busy to this day what theory
about the catastrophe do you believe
share your opinion in the comments below
if we've opened your eyes to one of the
mysteries you've been puzzling over give
us a thumbs up if this video gets 15,000
likes will tell you about the mystery of
the Mariana Trench to see more
mind-boggling videos subscribe to our
Channel and stay with us on the bright
side of life
[Music]